--- PAGE 18 ---
Fate Questions
A
sking and answering questions is the heart 
of a Mythic adventure, your principal tool 
for learning about the game world and 
moving the narrative forward.
Mythic handles this process of inquiry using 
Fate Questions: ask a Yes/No Question, determine 
the Odds of the answer being Yes, consult the 
Fate Chart to get the percentile chance, and roll 
1d100. Your roll will determine whether the 
answer is Yes, No, Exceptional Yes, or Exceptional 
No. Interpret the result within the Context of 
your adventure and continue playing.
All of your Questions about the adventure can 
be resolved in this manner. “Are there monsters 
in this room?” “Is the door locked?” “Is it raining 
today?” Anything you would ask your Game 
Master in a social role-playing game you can ask 
Mythic in a solo game.
WHEN TO ASK A 
FATE QUESTION
As you play through an adventure, you improvise 
the details based on what you expect your Character 
to experience. You can pause your improvisation 
at any time to test an expectation with a Fate 
Question; usually, you do this during a moment of 
narrative tension or when you’re unsure of what will 
happen next.
The Player Character is on a distant planetary 
colony, trapped in a building overrun by 
aggressive alien creatures. They find themself 
in the building’s control room, where they plan 
to activate the blast shields on all the windows 
and doors in the structure. Everything seems to 
FATE QUESTIONS
1616 1717


--- PAGE 19 ---
be functioning fine, so The Player expects the 
blast doors to respond, but they aren’t sure. What 
if the aliens damaged something? The Player 
decides to ask the Fate Question, “Do the blast 
shields go up?” 
Later in that same adventure, the PC is searching 
for weapons and has made their way to the 
colony’s armory. The Player doesn’t know if there 
are any weapons left. Maybe the original colonists 
cleaned out the armory when they first faced the 
alien invasion. Since the Player is unsure, they 
ask Mythic, “Are there weapons here?”
THE FATE CHART
The Fate Chart on the following page is used 
to determine the percentile chances of your Fate 
Questions receiving a Yes answer. Along the left 
side are probability descriptors (Impossible, Likely, 
Nearly Certain, etc.), and along the bottom is the 
Chaos Factor. 
When asking a Fate Question, decide what you 
think the Odds are of the answer being Yes. This 
is a gut decision based on the Question you’re 
asking and the Context you’re asking it in. The 
Fate Chart’s Odds uses common language such as 
Likely or Impossible to judge probability. 
Let’s say the Player Character is an occult 
investigator searching a library for tomes of 
magic. The Player decides to make this search 
into a Fate Question: “Does he find any tomes?” 
Maybe at this point in the adventure the PC 
has come across strange magic and supernatural 
events, and he knows that the library he’s 
searching through once belonged to a sorcerer and 
occultist. Given this Context the Player assigns 
this Question the Odds of Likely.
On the other hand, maybe the original owner of 
the library is unknown but the Player suspects 
they might have been involved in magic. This 
Context is different from the previous one: 
there’s less evidence that books of magic would be 
present. Given this Context the Player assigns the 
Odds of 50/50.
Choosing Odds
Who determines the Odds of a Fate Question? 
Well, if you’re playing solo, then you do. If 
you’re playing with a GM, then they do. If you’re 
playing with a group then the Players must all 
reach a consensus on how the Odds are chosen.
Mythic relies on Fate Questions to construct 
the narrative of the adventure as you play; what 
you ask and how you ask it will influence your 
game. While it’s best to phrase Fate Questions as 
naturally as possible, there are a few guidelines 
you should keep in mind.
Action Oriented
The Chaos Factor assumes that Yes answers are 
typically more active than No answers, so you’ll get 
the best results if your Fate Questions focus on 
active and interesting elements. “Are there zombies 
outside?” is better than “Is it all clear outside?”
Guided By Expectations
It’s generally best to let your Questions be guided 
by your expectations rather than your desires. A 
party of adventurers prowling down a dungeon 
hall might easily ask, “Do we hear anything?” 
but it would make little sense to ask, “Do I look 
down and see a Vorpal Blade of Instant Murder 
at my feet?” The current Context offers no logical 
expectation to prompt the second Question, but 
it does for the first.
ASKING THE RIGHT QUESTIONS
1818
FATE QUESTIONS

--- PAGE 20 ---
Your choices start in the middle at 50/50. 
These are the Odds to choose if you think there’s 
roughly a 50% chance of getting a Yes answer, or 
if you have no idea of the probability. Odds range 
upward from 50/50 to Likely, Very Likely, Nearly 
Certain, and Certain, and downward from 50/50 
to Unlikely, Very Unlikely, Nearly Impossible, 
and Impossible.
You may wonder at the Certain and Impossible 
Odds. After all, if something is impossible or 
certain then it’s a foregone conclusion, right? 
Not necessarily. The Odds are based on what 
you think they should be at the current moment, 
and that opinion is based on the Context of the 
adventure. Allowing some wiggle room in the 
results of extreme Odds acknowledges that what 
you and your PC know about the adventure is 
not absolute. Something may seem certain or 
impossible, but unfolding events can still prove us 
wrong about what we thought we knew.
Extreme Odds can also become more or 
less likely based on the Chaos Factor. When 
the narrative is in high gear the impossible can 
become probable for the sake of keeping tension 
and excitement high.
The Chaos Factor
The Chaos Factor is a value tracked throughout 
the adventure that represents how much control 
the Player Characters have over current events. 
The more out of control Scenes get, the higher 
the Chaos Factor will climb; the higher the Chaos 
Factor, the greater your chance of getting a Yes 
response to Fate Questions. The Chaos Factor 
FATE CHART
ODDS
Certain 10 50 91 13 65 94 15 75 96 17 85 98 18 90 99 19 95 100 20 99 x 20 99 x 20 99 x
Nearly Certain 7 35 88 10 50 91 13 65 94 15 75 96 17 85 98 18 90 99 19 95 100 20 99 x 20 99 x
Very Likely 5 25 86 7 35 88 10 50 91 13 65 94 15 75 96 17 85 98 18 90 99 19 95 100 20 99 x
Likely 3 15 84 5 25 86 7 35 88 10 50 91 13 65 94 15 75 96 17 85 98 18 90 99 19 95 100
50/50 2 10 83 3 15 84 5 25 86 7 35 88 10 50 91 13 65 94 15 75 96 17 85 98 18 90 99
Unlikely 1 5 82 2 10 83 3 15 84 5 25 86 7 35 88 10 50 91 13 65 94 15 75 96 17 85 98
Very Unlikely X 1 81 1 5 82 2 10 83 3 15 84 5 25 86 7 35 88 10 50 91 13 65 94 15 75 96
Nearly Impossible X 1 81 X 1 81 1 5 82 2 10 83 3 15 84 5 25 86 7 35 88 10 50 91 13 65 94
Impossible X 1 81 X 1 81 X 1 81 1 5 82 2 10 83 3 15 84 5 25 86 7 35 88 10 50 91
CHAOS FACTOR 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
1818 1919
FATE QUESTIONS

--- PAGE 21 ---
EXAMPLE ODDS
ODDS DESCRIPTION
“IS THE 
CREATURE 
HOSTILE?”
“WILL THIS 
ABANDONED 
CAR START?”
“DOES THE 
GUARD HELP 
US?”
CERTAIN You’re as sure of 
this as you can be.
It’s stated its 
intent to destroy 
us and looks 
ready to do so.
It was driven here 
just a moment ago.
He is an ally, 
pursuing the same 
goals as us.
NEARLY 
CERTAIN
You’re quite 
sure, but there 
is some doubt.
We’ve been 
fighting this 
thing all day.
We saw the vehicle 
operating a few 
hours ago.
He’s helped us 
before and is 
sympathetic 
to our goals.
VERY LIKELY
It’s quite likely, 
although far 
from sure.
It’s armed, angry, 
and actively 
threatening.
There’s signs of 
recent use, and 
it looks to be in 
good shape.
We’re on the 
same team, of 
course he’ll help.
LIKELY It’s slightly more 
likely than 50/50.
It’s armed 
and angry.
The car appears 
to be in working 
order.
He seems to be on 
our side. I think?
50/50
It can go either 
way, or you 
have no idea.
It’s a new 
encounter, we’ll 
have to see.
We just found 
this vehicle. 
Maybe it works?
You don’t know 
whose side 
he’s on. Cross 
your fingers.
UNLIKELY It’s slightly less 
likely than 50/50.
It’s unarmed and 
uninterested in us.
The vehicle looks 
a little rough.
He hasn’t been 
too friendly.
VERY 
UNLIKELY
It’s quite unlikely, 
but possible.
It looks docile. 
It doesn’t seem 
to mind our 
presence.
The vehicle is a 
mess. It looks like 
it hasn’t moved 
in a while.
He’s been hostile. 
I doubt he would 
risk helping us.
NEARLY 
IMPOSSIBLE
There might still 
be a chance.
We’ve seen 
these creatures 
before. They’ve all 
been peaceful.
The vehicle has 
lots of visible 
damage and 
is a mess. 
This guy is doing 
his job, he doesn’t 
care about 
our mission.
IMPOSSIBLE
There’s no way, 
unless I’m wrong 
about something.
These creatures 
have always been 
peaceful. This one 
seems tame.
This thing is a 
wreck. It would 
be a miracle 
if it started.
He’s a true believer 
in our enemy.
2020
FATE QUESTIONS

--- PAGE 22 ---
also determines the frequency of Random Events 
and how often Scenes begin as expected.
At the start of a new adventure the Chaos 
Factor is set to 5. A Scene that was chaotic and out 
of control increases the Chaos Factor by 1 point, 
while a Scene in which the Player Characters were 
mostly in control decreases it by 1. The value 
cannot drop below 1 or rise above 9; results that 
would push it beyond those limits are ignored. 
We’ll talk more about the ebb and flow of the 
Chaos Factor in the “Scenes” chapter.
The Chaos Factor has a big influence on the 
percentile chance of your Fate Question being 
a Yes. When consulting the Fate Chart, cross-
reference your chosen Odds on the left of the 
Chart with the current Chaos Factor at the 
bottom. The point at which these two intersect 
on the Fate Chart is the chance of your Fate 
Question being a Yes.
The occult investigator is searching the library 
for tomes of forbidden lore. The Player has 
determined that the Odds of finding such tomes 
are Likely. After all, this is the personal library of 
the mad mage Angus McGregor. The only reason 
they aren’t assigning higher Odds is because the 
mage would probably keep his best books in a 
hidden location.
2020 2121
FATE QUESTIONS


--- PAGE 23 ---
Things have been fairly calm in the last few 
Scenes, with the Character maintaining control 
for the most part, so the Chaos Factor currently 
sits at a value of 3. Comparing the Odds of 
Likely to the current Chaos Factor, the Player 
determines that there is a 35% chance of finding 
a tome of magic sitting on one of the shelves.
SHIFTING TONE
A live Game Master isn’t going to maintain 
the same tone throughout an adventure; there are 
times they’ll want to push more action and times 
they’ll want to dial it back. The Chaos Factor 
shifts throughout your adventure to simulate a 
GM shifting the tempo while running a game.
Since Yes answers to Fate Questions tend to be 
more action oriented, they become more and more 
likely the higher the Chaos Factor climbs. Higher 
Chaos also means higher chances of Random 
Events and a greater likelihood that your Scenes 
will start in unexpected ways; these aspects of the 
Chaos Factor are discussed more in the “Random 
Events” and “Scenes” chapters, respectively.
Here’s an example of how the Chaos Factor 
influences Fate Questions to regulate the 
atmosphere of a game:
The Player Character Safrid, a high fantasy 
druid, has been exploring a dungeon. Safrid has 
handled the dungeon’s various perils well so far, 
and the Chaos Factor has fallen to 4. 
Suddenly, he comes across a Bog Beast, a truly 
terrifying creature! The battle doesn’t go well, 
and he retreats, fleeing from the monster to 
relative safety. This Scene was a mess for Safrid; 
the PC definitely wasn’t in control. The Chaos 
Factor goes up to 5.
In the following Scene, as Safrid flees, he runs 
afoul of a trap in the dungeon and barely escapes 
it with his life. Once again, this is a Scene where 
Safrid had difficulty dealing with trouble. The 
Chaos Factor goes up again to 6.
The higher Chaos Factor means Safrid faces 
greater chances of active elements during the 
adventure. Is there a trap in this room? Yes. Is 
the door locked at the end of the hall? Yes. Is 
the Bog Beast still chasing him? Yes. Chaotic 
conditions in each Scene encourage more chaotic 
conditions in following Scenes, creating a 
CHAOS FACTOR VALUES
2222
FATE QUESTIONS

--- PAGE 24 ---
snowball effect where the tension slowly increases 
and the Chaos Factor continues to rise.
Eventually, Safrid gets a handle on things 
again. He finds a place to rest; he prepares for 
the Bog Beast and defeats it; he finds a potion 
that heals some of his wounds. The Character 
is facing the challenges of the adventure head-
on and overcoming them. This control over the 
adventure reverses the rising tension, and things 
calm down as the Chaos Factor falls to 4, 3, and 
even 2.
The lower Chaos Factor starts to have the opposite 
effect from before: now that things are calm in 
the adventure, and the Chaos Factor is low, No 
answers to Fate Questions are more common. 
When the Character is in control, No answers 
tend to be negative for them. Is there treasure in 
the chest? No. Does he have any food left? No. 
Now the lower Chaos Factor is working against 
Safrid; this encourages the pendulum to start 
swinging back the other way, setting the stage for 
future challenges that the character may face.
Not every Scene or Fate Question follows 
these assumptions exactly, but when you look at 
the course of an adventure as a whole they tend 
to hold true. The overall result is that the Chaos 
Factor shifts the tone of the adventure so you 
never get too comfortable or too sure of exactly 
how things are going to unfold.
Using The Fate Chart
You have your Question, you have your Odds, 
you know the Chaos Factor; now it’s time to consult 
the Fate Chart. Cross reference the determined 
Odds with the current Chaos Factor to get the 
probability of a Yes answer to your Fate Question.
You’ll notice that the values in the Fate Chart 
are expressed with a large central number flanked 
by smaller numbers on both sides. The central 
number is the percentile chance of a Yes answer. 
Roll 1D100 and compare the result to this value. 
If you roll within the value, then the answer is 
Yes; if you roll above it, then the answer is No.
By rolling very low or very high you can 
achieve Exceptional results. The smaller numbers 
to the left and right of the central number 
represent the extreme 20% of the Yes and No 
ranges, giving you a 1 in 5 chance of a Yes or No 
answer being Exceptional. Rolling equal to or 
less than the left-hand number is an Exceptional 
Yes; rolling equal to or higher than the right-hand 
number is an Exceptional No. A value of “X” 
means an Exceptional result is not possible with 
those Odds.
TO ANSWER YOUR 
QUESTION
Mythic will yield one of four responses to 
a Fate Question: Yes, No, Exceptional Yes, or 
Exceptional No. This gives you four possible 
paths of interpretation.
Yes
A Yes response to a Fate Question means the 
answer is your Expectation of what a Yes would 
mean. This is the most straightforward of the 
possible answers and likely won’t require much 
interpretation. 
The Chaos Factor is a major influence on the 
answers to Fate Questions. While this is meant 
to vary the tone throughout the adventure, you 
can adjust the Chaos Factor’s influence to suit 
your tastes. Check out “Choose Your Chaos 
Flavor” in the “Variations” chapter on page 147 
for variant rules that change how much power 
the Chaos Factor exerts.
QUESTIONABLE CHAOS
2222 2323
FATE QUESTIONS

--- PAGE 25 ---
“Is the door locked?” Yes, the door is locked. 
“Does the black hole begin to suck us in?” Yes, 
the black hole is sucking you in. “Is the gladiator 
armed with a sword?” Yes, he’s armed with the 
kind of sword you’d expect.
No
A No response to a Fate Question means 
the answer is the next most Expected outcome 
from what a Yes would have meant. With simple 
Questions, a No may be the opposite of a Yes and 
therefore easy to interpret; a complex Question 
might require more interpretative legwork. 
“Is the door locked?” No, it’s unlocked. “Does the 
black hole begin to suck us in?” No, you’re fine 
for now. “Is the gladiator armed with a sword?” 
No, he’s armed with a spear.
Exceptional Yes
An Exceptional Yes is the same as a Yes but 
intensified, meaning you take your Yes answer to 
the next logical level. 
“Is the door locked?” Yes, and it’s a darn good 
lock. “Does the black hole begin to suck us in?” 
Yes, and the stressors are causing damage all 
across the ship. “Is the gladiator armed with a 
sword?” Yes, a huge greatsword.
Exceptional No
An Exceptional No is the opposite of a Yes 
answer. If that would be the same as a regular No, 
then it’s the opposite of a Yes intensified.
“Is the door locked?” No, in fact the door is 
partially open. “Does the black hole suck us in?” 
No, you’re actually moving away from it. “Is 
the gladiator armed with a sword?” No, he’s not 
armed at all.
Values on the Fate Chart are expressed with a central, large number 
showing the percentage chance of a Yes answer. Rolling 1d100 equal 
to or less than this number is a Yes answer. Rolling equal to or less 
than the number on the left, the lower 20% of the Yes answer range, 
is an Exceptional Yes. Rolling above the central number is a No, and 
rolling equal to or above the rightmost number is an Exceptional No. 
In the cutout above, a roll of 1-10 would be an Exceptional Yes, 11-50 
a Yes, 51-90 a No, and 91-100 an Exceptional No.
FATE QUESTION ANSWERS
ANSWER RESULT
YES The answer is Yes, confirming 
your expectation.
EXCEPTIONAL 
YES
The answer is Yes, 
confirming your 
expectation and beyond.
NO
The answer is No. Go 
with the next most 
expected outcome.
EXCEPTIONAL 
NO
The answer is the opposite 
of a Yes, or the opposite 
of a Yes intensified.
2424
FATE QUESTIONS

--- PAGE 26 ---
Random Events
One consequence of asking Fate Questions is 
inviting a Random Event to occur. When rolling 
d100 to answer your Question, if you get a double 
number (11, 22, 33, etc.), and the single value of 
that number (1, 2, 3, etc.) is equal to or less than 
the current Chaos Factor, then you’ve triggered a 
Random Event. We’ll delve more into Random 
Events in the next chapter.
THE FATE CHECK
Not everyone likes looking up percentile 
values on a table. If you’d rather not use the Fate 
Chart to answer Fate Questions you can skip the 
Chart and use a Fate Check instead. You still roll 
2d10, but this time you add the dice together 
instead of treating them like a percentile. This 
method of answering Fate Questions can be 
faster than using the Fate Chart and it matches 
the Odds fairly closely aside from a higher chance 
of Exceptional results.
Adjust For Odds & Chaos Factor
Like the d100 Fate Chart, a 2d10 Fate Check is 
modified based on the current Chaos Factor and 
the Odds assigned to a Fate Question. The “Fate 
Check Modifiers” table on the next page breaks 
down how the Odds and Chaos Factor affect your 
roll results. 
For instance, if you asked a Fate Question 
with Odds of Very Likely you would apply a +2 
modifier to the roll. If the Chaos Factor currently 
stood at 4, you would apply another modifier of 
-1. Adding both modifiers together gives a final 
modifier of +1.
If your next Fate Question had Odds of Nearly 
Impossible you would get a modifier of -4. 
Combined with the Chaos Factor modifier of -1 
your total modifier is -5.
Fate Check Answers
The “Fate Check Answers” table summarizes 
what your roll total means. A modified total of 11 
or more is a Yes answer, while a total below 11 is a 
No answer.
As with the Fate Chart, rolling very high or 
very low will give you an Exceptional answer.  If 
the modified total falls within the 18-20 range 
then the answer is an Exceptional Yes; if the 
total falls within the 2-4 range then the answer 
is an Exceptional No. Your final total must fall 
somewhere within those ranges to count as an 
Exceptional result. A modified roll of 18 is an 
Exceptional Yes, while a modified roll of 22 is 
a regular Yes. This means modifiers will push 
your dice total toward those ranges but may also 
cause the total to exceed them, in which case no 
Exceptional result occurs.
Interpretation is an important part of the 
emulating process. Mythic answers your 
Questions, but these answers are merely 
prompts for you to make sense of.  
Often interpretations will come easily. If the 
Question was, “I open the desk drawer; is there 
a gun inside?” then a Yes or a No will be clear. 
Sometimes, though, interpretations elude you, 
or an answer won’t give you enough to interpret. 
If you feel like you need more information you 
can try to clarify the answer with another Fate 
Question. “Is the gun a pistol?” “Is it loaded?”
Be careful not to fall into the trap of asking for 
more detail than you need. A string of narrow, 
specific Questions can easily stall the flow of the 
game. Unless it’s something important to the 
adventure it’s generally best to ask a few “big 
picture” Questions and run with your expectations 
as far as you can. The goal is to gather just enough 
information to move things forward. 
THE ART OF INTERPRETATION
2424 2525
FATE QUESTIONS

--- PAGE 27 ---
Random Events
Random Events are handled the same way with 
a Fate Check as they are with the Fate Chart. If 
both dice come up as the same number (11, 22, 
33, etc.), and the single digit value (1, 2, 3, etc.) is 
equal to or less than the Chaos Factor, then you 
get a Random Event. As with the Fate Chart, the 
result that triggers an Event is still used to answer 
your Fate Question as well.
Safrid the Druid has survived the Dungeon of 
Galzarad … so far. Now, in his travels through 
a deep, subterranean cavern, he’s come across 
a rope bridge suspended over a chasm. Using a 
Fate Check, his Player asks the Fate Question, 
“Does the bridge look stable?”
The Player assigns this Question the Odds of 
Nearly Impossible (-4 modifier), and the Chaos 
Factor is currently 6 (+1 modifier), resulting in 
a final modifier of -3. This means the Player has 
to roll at least a 14 to receive a Yes answer.
The Player rolls 2d10 and gets a 3 and a 3. The 
rolled total is 6 with a -3 modifier for a final 
result of 3. That’s below the target number of 
11, so the answer is a No. This result also falls 
within the 2-4 range, making it an Exceptional 
No. And since a double number was rolled (3 
and 3), and 3 is within the CF value of 6, this 
Question also results in a Random Event.
It looks like Safrid may be in for an interesting 
time trying to get across that bridge.
FATE CHECK ANSWERS
ROLL TOTAL FATE QUESTION ANSWER
18-20 Exceptional Yes
11 or more Yes
10 or less No
2-4 Exceptional No
Doubles, 
single digit 
CF or less
Random Event
ODDS ROLL 
MODIFIER
CERTAIN +5 
NEARLY 
CERTAIN +4
VERY 
LIKELY +2
LIKELY +1
50/50 None
UNLIKELY  -1
VERY 
UNLIKELY -2
NEARLY 
IMPOSSIBLE -4
IMPOSSIBLE -5
CHAOS 
FACTOR
ROLL 
MODIFIER
9 +5 
8 +4
7 +2
6 +1
5 None
4  -1
3 -2
2 -4
1 -5
FATE CHECK MODIFIERS
2626
FATE QUESTIONS

--- PAGE 28 ---
WHEN TO RUN WITH 
EXPECTATIONS 
AND WHEN TO 
QUESTION THEM
Fate Questions should be asked when you aren’t 
sure whether an expectation you have is true. The 
more you use Mythic to create adventures the more 
you’ll get a feel for when to ask a Fate Question and 
when to stick with your expectations.
If you find yourself conflicted, follow your 
interests, consider the Context of the adventure, 
and listen to your gut. Does it feel right to pose this 
detail as a Fate Question, or are you certain enough 
to take it for granted? 
As your adventure progresses and develops more 
Context Fate Questions and their answers will get 
easier and easier to come up with. Much of the 
narrative’s richness will come from details that were 
fleshed out by prior Fate Questions. Establishing 
that a certain NPC is unfriendly will shape your 
later expectations about that Character and 
might impact the Odds of future Fate Questions 
concerning their actions. In this way, a logical 
chain of events will build upon itself, shaping the 
structure of the adventure and spinning it into a 
narrative just like a Game Master would. 
Give Me More!
In order to keep things moving in your 
adventure a good rule of thumb is to try and limit 
yourself to no more than two Fate Questions 
for any one detail; that should give you enough 
information to reach a reasonable expectation for 
just about anything. If you can manage with only 
one Question so much the better.
A pair of occult investigators are creeping through 
a graveyard at midnight, searching for the walking 
dead. They come across a mausoleum and inspect 
the entrance to see if it’s been opened recently.
One of the Players asks, “Do we hear anything?” 
Mythic says Yes, but the Player doesn’t have a 
clear expectation of what is heard. 
“We crash land the plane in an open field as safely as 
possible. Did it sustain any damage?”
Yes: The plane is damaged but not in any way 
that can’t be repaired.
No: The ground was smooth enough that you 
were able to roll it to a stop in one piece.
Exceptional Yes: The ground was rough. One 
of the wheels came off in a ditch and pitched us 
sideways, crumpling a wing as we slammed into 
the ground. The plane is an unflyable wreck.
Exceptional No: A perfect touchdown without 
any damage. In fact, the plane is well-positioned 
for takeoff once you find fuel.
“We succeed in breaking open the vault. Do we find 
the vaccine inside?”
Yes: Yes, you do.
No: The vaccine isn’t there.
Exceptional Yes: You find several cases of the 
vaccine, many more than you expected.
Exceptional No: You find the broken, ruined 
vials of the vaccine—it’s been destroyed.
“We make our way through the woods. Do we 
encounter anything today?”
Yes: Yes, now you have to figure out what the 
encounter is.
No: All is peaceful.
Exceptional Yes: More than one encounter. 
Figure out what the first one is, then once that’s 
resolved figure out the second one.
Exceptional No: All is peaceful today and tonight 
as well, so there’s no need to check again when 
you make camp.
SAMPLE QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
2626 2727
FATE QUESTIONS

--- PAGE 29 ---
“Does it sound like something scrambling inside 
a tomb?” No. “Does it sound like someone 
walking through the graveyard?” No. “Does it 
sound like something flying through the air?” No.
The Player is muscling through a run of 
No answers in search of a Yes, but they could 
have stopped after the second Question (“Does 
it sound like something scrambling inside a 
tomb?”). They already know that the investigators 
hear a noise that isn’t coming from inside the 
mausoleum, so a logical expectation at this point 
might be that they hear something outside in the 
graveyard—perhaps a shuffling sound—or that 
they hear something too faint to identify and will 
have to investigate further. 
After two Questions the Player has enough 
information to make a reasonable interpretation 
that matches their expectations.
USING FATE 
QUESTIONS TO 
REPLACE RPG RULES
You can ask any Fate Question during an 
adventure, even one that would normally be 
handled with the mechanics of your chosen RPG. 
If you can’t recall a certain rule or haven’t fully 
learned the game, you can use Fate Questions 
as an on-the-spot substitute, similar to the “snap 
judgements” a live GM might make to save time. 
You can assign Odds to these Fate Questions 
based on the Context of the adventure and your 
current understanding of the RPG’s rules. 
The Player is playing a post-apocalyptic game 
that has rules for randomly determining details 
about any surviving settlements the Player 
Character comes across. During an adventure, 
the PC encounters a village, but the Player can’t 
remember the rules for generating settlements 
and they don’t want to stop in the middle of 
playing to look them up. 
They do remember that the process involves 
determining key factors like population size, 
technology level, and systems of law and order, 
so they take this knowledge of the RPG rules and 
turn it into Fate Questions: “Does the village 
have a decent size population?” “Do they have 
advanced technology?” “Is the village ordered and 
So far, this section has focused on using Fate 
Questions to replace “spot rules” in your chosen 
RPG, thereby reducing the time you spend 
flipping pages in search of a mechanic you can’t 
remember. You can take this further by replacing 
any rules you don’t feel like using, or you can even 
forgo the rules entirely and just use Mythic. This 
spectrum from Mythic to mechanics lets you be 
flexible with how you play. 
For instance, if you wanted to use a chosen 
RPG but felt more inspired by its setting than 
its actual rules, you could just take the setting 
and replace the mechanics with Fate Questions. 
But maybe there are some rules in the game 
you really like, such as a sanity system or a 
cybernetic hacking minigame. These you could 
port over as Fate Questions, following the tone 
and intent of the original rules but resolving 
them with Mythic instead.
You can also use this approach to learn a new 
RPG. Rather than reading it cover to cover, you 
can just start playing and replace anything 
you don’t understand yet with Fate Questions. 
Then, as you learn more of the RPG, you can 
incorporate more and more of the game rules 
into your adventure.
This is another beautiful thing about solo role-
playing: you have tremendous control over how 
you play, not just in the narrative of the adventure 
itself but in the meta aspect of what rules you use 
and how you use them.
USING MYTHIC AS AN RPG
2828
FATE QUESTIONS

--- PAGE 30 ---
structured?” Once the Player has enough to go on 
the PC can begin to interact with the new location.
Later on in the adventure the PC ends up in a 
situation where she is at risk of drowning. The 
Player can’t remember the rules for determining 
whether a character drowns, so to keep things 
moving they leave it up to a Fate Question: “Does 
the PC start to drown”? They then interpret the 
resulting answer and continue playing.
Chaos, Events, And 
Exceptional Answers
Mythic’s Fate Questions are intended to 
guide the narrative of an adventure and the 
Chaos Factor is there to regulate that narrative. 
Questions like “Does the kingdom have harsh 
laws?” are narrative, story-oriented Questions; the 
answers to them can vary depending on the CF, 
and the CF varies depending on what’s happened 
in the adventure so far. Past narrative impacts 
current narrative.
2828 2929
FATE QUESTIONS


--- PAGE 31 ---
But when you’re using Fate Questions to 
replace the rules of an RPG (combat “to hit” 
rules, recovery from damage, task resolution, 
etc.), what matters more than the ebb and flow 
of narrative tension is consistency. I suggest, in 
these cases, that you disregard the current CF and 
treat it as a value of 5. This will give those Fate 
Questions default, middle of the road percentiles 
without the Chaos Factor skewing results. 
You should also consider whether to honor 
Exceptional results. Unless you know that the 
rule you’re replacing has degrees of success and 
failure, it may be best to treat Exceptional results 
as regular answers.
The Player has just picked up a new superheroes 
role-playing game. They understand enough of 
the rules to make a Character, so they decide to 
jump right in with a solo Mythic adventure. 
During the first Scene, the PC finds themself 
in an apparently empty building. They have 
a power that allows them to sense when other 
people are nearby, but the Player can’t remember 
the rules for how to use it. Looking it up would 
break the narrative tension, so the Player decides 
to pose it as a Fate Question instead: “Do I 
successfully use my power to sense if there are 
others nearby?”
The Player knows that the PC’s power should be 
strong enough to cover the entire building (unless 
the building is actually bigger than it looks), so 
they decide that the Odds of a Yes are Nearly 
Certain. Since this Fate Question is replacing a 
rule in their chosen RPG, they ignore the current 
Chaos Factor of 7 and treat it as a 5. According 
to the Fate Chart, this gives the PC an 85% 
chance of successfully using their power. 
The Player rolls and gets an 8. With the modifier 
from the Odds, this puts the result within the 
range of an Exceptional Yes. However, the Player 
knows that this RPG doesn’t have degrees of success 
for this power—it either works or it doesn’t—so 
they treat the answer like a simple Yes.
The power worked; the PC is psychically 
scanning the building for the presence of others. 
So, do they detect anyone?
Asking a Fate Question to use the power was 
done to replace a rule in the RPG. Now that we 
know the power succeeded asking if we detect 
anyone is a normal, narrative Fate Question. 
The Player goes back to using regular Mythic 
rules: they ask a Fate Question, “Do I detect 
anyone?”, assign it Odds, and allow the Chaos 
Factor of 7 to influence the result.
Another thing you may want to consider 
is ignoring Random Events that result from 
Fate Questions used as RPG rules. As with 
Exceptional results this may depend on whether 
the rule from your chosen RPG has a similar 
mechanic that allows for additional consequences. 
Ignoring Random Events in these cases are a 
judgement call on your part; sometimes it may 
make sense to generate the Random Event, and 
sometimes it may not.
FATE QUESTIONS AS RPG RULES
FATE 
QUESTION
Pose the Fate Question 
to act as the RPG rule.
CHAOS 
FACTOR
Treat the Chaos Factor 
as a value of 5 for these 
Questions, regardless of 
what the actual Chaos 
Factor value is right now.
EXCEPTIONAL 
RESULTS
Treat Exceptional Yes and 
No as a regular Yes and No 
if the rule being replaced 
doesn’t use degrees of 
success or failure.
RANDOM 
EVENTS
Ignore Random Events 
unless they make sense 
to include with this rule.
3030
FATE QUESTIONS

--- PAGE 32 ---
THE BIG FATE 
QUESTION EXAMPLE: 
Henny In Z Land
Let’s put the rules of this chapter into action 
with a trip into zombie territory. 
In this example, the Player Character is Henny 
Lassiter, a barista turned zombie apocalypse 
survivor. Henny’s Player is using their favorite 
end-of-the-world RPG with Mythic acting as the 
Game Master of their solo adventure campaign.
Henny has already been through a few 
adventures: surviving the initial outbreak, escaping 
the city, and learning to get by in the wild. In 
the current adventure, Henny and her rescued 
companion Malcolm have made their way into a 
forest in search of shelter, staying alert for zombies.
The Player asks, “Do I see any movement in 
the trees ahead?” The current Chaos Factor is 
4, and considering how deep in the forest the 
Characters are, they figure the Odds of seeing 
movement right now are Very Unlikely. This gives 
them a 15% chance of a Yes on the Fate Chart. 
They roll d100 and get 50, a No. The Player 
interprets this to mean that the coast is clear, and 
the two Characters continue on. 
After what the Player decides is an hour’s worth 
of walking, they ask, “Do we find anything useful 
along the way?” The forest is on the outskirts of a 
city, and Henny and Malcolm have been walking 
for some time, so the Player figures the Odds of 
coming across something now are Likely. They 
check these Odds against the CF of 4 and get a 
50% chance on the Fate Chart. 
Rolling again, the Player gets 33 for a Yes, with 
a possible Random Event since they rolled double 
digits (a 3 and a 3). The 3 is equal to or less than 
the CF value of 4, so a Random Event does occur.
The Player thinks about the Yes answer to the 
Question first. What they would most expect to 
find would be random supplies dropped by people 
fleeing the city. In the pandemonium of the mass 
exit there would likely be stuff left along the way 
that could be useful to others.
The Player next generates the Random Event 
(using the rules in the next chapter, which we’ll get 
to soon) and interprets the results as Henny and 
Malcolm coming across a seemingly abandoned 
encampment. This Random Event works well with 
the Yes answer to the Fate Question.
The Player interprets all of this as Henny and 
Malcolm discovering an abandoned encampment 
in the woods. There are remnants of a fire, a 
backpack that’s seen better days, and a torn tent.
The discovery of the camp was interpreted 
from the Random Event. For the Question about 
finding anything useful, the Player interprets the 
Yes answer as the Characters finding a few cans 
of food while digging through the abandoned 
campsite. Considering they haven’t eaten in over 
24 hours finding food is certainly useful.
When interpreting the Yes for the Question of 
“Do we find anything useful along the way?” 
the Player chose to follow their expectations 
for what a Yes means.
If they weren’t sure, they could have tested 
this expectation with another Fate Question, 
such as “Do we find food?”
The Player decided to limit this to a single 
Question and run with an interpretation 
that made the most sense.
Henny and Malcolm continue their trek 
through the forest. The day is wearing on; they’ll 
need to find shelter before nightfall, when the 
temperature will drop drastically.
The Player asks, “Do we find shelter in the 
woods before night?” With hours of walking 
between now and then the Player decides that 
it’s Likely for them to find shelter of some kind 
in that time. With the Chaos Factor at 4 the 
percentile chance of a Yes is 50%.
The Player rolls and gets 9. Not only is that a 
Yes it’s an Exceptional Yes since it falls within the 
3030 3131
FATE QUESTIONS

--- PAGE 33 ---
lower 20% of the Yes range (for Odds of 50%, that 
would be a roll of 10 or less). The Player interprets 
this to mean that as the sun begins to dip towards 
the horizon Henny and Malcolm spot a two-story 
house, a full domicile, nestled deep among the 
trees. This is a wonderful find! Not only will it 
give them shelter for the night but there might be 
all kinds of supplies and goods inside.
The two cautiously approach the house, wary 
of any lurking zombies or fellow survivors looking 
to protect what’s theirs. Henny takes a deep 
breath and tries the door to see if it’s locked. 
The Player asks, “Is the door locked?” but has 
to think about the Context for a moment to try 
and come up with Odds. Henny and Malcolm are 
several weeks into a zombie apocalypse, and the 
area has been mostly evacuated. However, this is a 
nice house so anyone still around would probably 
have sought shelter here just like Henny and 
Malcolm are trying to.
The Player isn’t sure of the Odds to this 
Question so they go with 50/50. With the Chaos 
Factor at 4 the chance of a Yes is 35%. They roll a 
92, an Exceptional No. The Player interprets this 
to mean that not only is the door unlocked but 
the house inside is in excellent shape. A valuable 
find. Henny and Malcolm step inside. 
Using Odds of 50/50 are good for when you 
think the chances of something are about 
even, but also when you have no idea what 
the Odds for something should be.
Since the Exceptional result calls for 
intensifying the answer the Player follows their 
expectation for what that means in this situation. 
Not only is the door to the house unlocked, the 
interior is well stocked with food and goods and 
even has running water and electricity. Whoever 
lived here evacuated quickly, taking only essentials 
and leaving everything else. It appears that Henny 
and Malcolm are the first people to come across 
the place since the outbreak began.
3232
FATE QUESTIONS


--- PAGE 34 ---
3232 3333
FATE QUESTIONS


--- PAGE 35 ---
3434

