--- PAGE 107 ---
OBJECTS
There are several other tables for describing 
specific kinds of items but the Objects Table is 
general enough that it can be applied to anything. 
It works best for when you don’t know what an 
object is and want prompts to figure it out.
POWERS
This Elements Meaning Table is meant to 
inspire powers of all sorts, from heroic superpowers 
to the strange abilities of an alien creature.
SCAVENGING RESULTS
Designed for post-apocalyptic settings, or any 
other site of desolation you’re picking through 
for goods, this table tells you what type of items 
you’ve uncovered and if the act of scavenging has 
put you in danger.
SMELLS & SOUNDS
These two tables are good for generating sensory 
information. They can be applied to any situation 
where a Character is testing the air or listening.
SPELL EFFECTS
This table helps you determine what kind of 
spell is being cast—useful when facing an enemy 
sorcerer or after springing a magical trap with 
a spell-like effect. The results are generalized, 
intended to give you a rough category of spell.
VISIONS & DREAMS
Similar to Cryptic Messages, Visions & 
Dreams focus on potential future conflict with 
words about warnings and solutions.
GENERATING 
NPC BEHAVIOR
The PC has battled his way through the Canyons 
of Chron, slaying beast after beast on an alien 
world to prove his worth to a powerful warlord. 
He returns triumphant to the warband’s 
encampment and is summoned to the warlord’s 
tent. The warlord, flanked by guards, leans 
forward in his chair and says … .
What does he say? Where do we go from here?
You figure out what an NPC does in your 
adventure the same way you figure out anything 
else in Mythic: with expectations, Fate Questions, 
and Meaning Tables. 
In the example above, if the Player 
had a clear expectation for 
what the warlord would say, 
they might go with that. “The 
warlord says he’s impressed 
with your performance.” 
If they have some idea but 
106106
SCENES


--- PAGE 108 ---
aren’t sure, they might frame it as a Fate Question 
such as, “Does the warlord say he’s impressed?” If 
they had no idea what the warlord would say, they 
might roll on a Meaning Table for inspiration.
Using expectations for behavior is good for 
unimportant NPCs or when you don’t want to 
slow down your adventure to randomize NPC 
actions. If you have an idea of what the NPC will 
do, and their action is important to the adventure, 
you could pose the expected action as a Fate 
Question. This adds some randomness to the 
NPC’s action—you think you know what they’ll 
do but they might do something else.
If you have no idea what the NPC will do then 
you can roll a completely random action on a 
Meaning Table. The most useful Meaning Tables 
for determining NPC actions are:
 » Actions
 » Characters (Elements)
 » Animal Actions (Elements)
 » Character Actions, Combat (Elements)
 » Character Actions, General (Elements)
 » Character Conversations (Elements)
Expectations As Actions
Most NPC actions will be determined by your 
expectations; you’re probably not going to roll 
for every single thing an NPC does. If Bering 
the Magnificent is walking through a village 
market, then his Player will probably assume that 
the NPCs around him are going about their own 
business. When you have a clear expectation for 
an NPC action, and the action isn’t important 
to the course of your adventure, then simply 
following your expectations will do.
A warrior PC sits down in a tavern, intent on 
getting something to eat and questioning the 
barkeeper for news about the area.
The barkeeper is a new NPC, but the Player 
decides their initial action in this encounter is 
obvious: they come over to the PC’s table and say, 
“What can I get you?”
Discovering Meaning As Actions
Maybe the Player has no idea what the NPC 
will do or they want to randomize it. Instead of 
following their expectations they can use words 
from Meaning Tables.
The warrior’s Player changes their mind and 
decides to determine the tavern keeper’s action 
using Meaning Tables. Rolling on the Characters 
STRATEGY FOR GENERATING 
NPC ACTIONS
106106 107107
SCENES


--- PAGE 109 ---
Elements Table gets them “Odd” and “Passive.” 
They interpret this to mean that the barkeeper 
shambles over to the PC and grunts at them, 
apparently his way of asking the PC what they 
would like.
Fate Questions As Actions
If you have an expectation for the NPC’s 
behavior that you’d like to test you could ask a 
Fate Question. This is a good choice if the NPC’s 
actions are important to your adventure or you 
just want to randomize the behavior.
The Player decides to test their expectation with a 
Fate Question. They ask, “Does the barkeeper come 
to take my order?” assigning Odds of Certain.
When determining NPC actions with Fate 
Questions choose a behavior the NPC is likely to 
do. You don’t have to be sure about this choice since 
you’re going to test it with a Fate Question anyway.
If you’re in the middle of an encounter where 
the NPC has already taken action you could ask, 
“Does the NPC keep doing what they’re doing?” 
This is especially useful in tense situations where 
an NPC’s actions matter every round but you 
don’t want to slow down to think about what 
they’ll do each time. Instead, you simply check to 
see if they continue a previous action.
Bering the Magnificent is facing off against an 
assassin on the deck of a ship during a rough 
storm. The Player has a good idea of what the 
assassin will do, so they ask the Fate Question, 
“Does the assassin attack Bering with his sword?” 
with Odds of Nearly Certain. Mythic says Yes, 
and the battle begins. 
In the next round, the Player wants to see if the 
assassin continues fighting in this way, so they 
ask, “Does the assassin continue with his current 
action?” with Odds of Certain.
Phrase the action as a Fate Question and 
assign it Odds like you would with any other Fate 
Question. If it’s a behavior you expect it’s probable 
that your Odds will at least be Likely if not 
stronger. If you’re unsure then consider the Odds 
50/50. If you’re really unsure and just taking a 
shot in the dark with a random behavior you 
might go with lesser Odds such as Unlikely.
You can resolve these Fate Questions using 
Mythic’s normal rules or you can consult the 
NPC Behavior Table for suggestions on how to 
handle NPC actions. 
 
NPC BEHAVIOR TABLE
The NPC Behavior Table offers suggestions for 
how to interpret Fate Questions about NPC actions.
A Yes answer to a behavior Fate Question is easy 
to interpret: the NPC either does what you thought 
they would do or continues to do what they were 
already doing.
A No answer means the NPC does something 
other than what you expected. If you have an idea 
of what that would be you can use that as the 
action; otherwise, choose a Meaning Table to roll 
on for inspiration.
An Exceptional Yes means the NPC does what’s 
expected with greater intensity.
You can check for NPC actions as often or as 
rarely as you like. Maybe you choose to only 
determine an NPC’s first action in an encounter 
and follow your expectations from there, or 
maybe you’re in a tense confrontation with an 
important NPC and want to randomly determine 
the Character’s actions round-by-round.
If you’re frequently asking Fate Questions or 
consulting Meaning Tables to determine NPC 
behavior it’s important to keep your adventure 
moving smoothly by taking the broadest 
interpretations you can. This will help you not get 
held up on a difficult Interpretation.
KEEP IT LOOSE AND FLOWING
108108
SCENES

--- PAGE 110 ---
The Player asks the Fate Question “Does the 
assassin continue with his current action?” Mythic 
answers with an Exceptional Yes. The Player’s 
interpretation is that the NPC launches himself at 
Bering in an aggressive attack without taking any 
defensive precautions.
An Exceptional No means the NPC either does 
the opposite of what you expected or does the 
next most expected action with greater intensity. 
If you don’t have any ideas for an expected 
behavior roll on a Meaning Table for inspiration 
and make the resulting action more intense.
A few rounds later Mythic answers Exceptional 
No to “Does the assassin continue his current 
action?” The fight hasn’t been going well for the 
assassin, with Bering using magic to fend him 
off. The Player decides that the opposite of what 
they expected would be for the assassin to break 
away from the fight and flee.  
If the Fate Question about NPC behavior 
generates a Random Event consider the Event 
an additional part of the NPC’s actions, with 
Current Context as the Event Focus and the 
nature of the action determined by rolling on 
a Meaning Table. Combine the result with the 
original action if it makes sense; otherwise, treat 
them as two separate actions, basing the first 
action on the result of your Fate Question and the 
second action on the result of the Random Event. 
When Bering’s Player rolled Exceptional No for 
the assassin’s action they also rolled a Random 
Event. The Player rolls on the “Character 
Actions, Combat” Elements Table and gets 
“Charge” and “Lie”.
The Player decides it makes sense to combine the 
Random Event with the Fate Question’s answer 
of Exceptional No; the Event will help clarify the 
NPC’s unexpected action. They interpret it this 
way: the assassin charges at Bering again with 
a wild battle cry. Bering braces himself for the 
impact, his mystic barriers up. But just before he 
reaches Bering, the assassin veers to the side and 
leaps over the ship’s railing. The charge attack 
was a bluff to make Bering hunker down and 
give the assassin an opportunity to escape.
Conversations
Saying something is an action, too. When 
determining what an NPC says in a conversation 
it’s helpful to focus on the overall tone and 
message the NPC is trying to convey. Like 
NPC BEHAVIOR TABLE
FATE 
QUESTION 
RESULT
“DOES THE NPC DO X?”
YES
The NPC does what you 
expect or continues with 
their ongoing action.
NO
The NPC does the next 
most expected behavior. 
If you’re unsure what that 
is then roll on a Meaning 
Table for inspiration.
EXCEPTIONAL 
YES
The NPC does the expected 
action, or continues 
their ongoing action, 
with greater intensity. 
EXCEPTIONAL 
NO
The NPC does the opposite 
of what you expected or 
does the next most expected 
behavior with greater 
intensity. If you’re unsure 
then roll on a Meaning 
Table for inspiration and 
intensify that action.
RANDOM 
EVENT
Roll on a Meaning 
Table for an additional 
action from the NPC.
108108 109109
SCENES

--- PAGE 111 ---
anything in a Mythic adventure, the rules 
presented here are meant to give you general 
guidance; the actual words the NPC uses are up to 
you. Feel free to use creative license as long as their 
dialog is in line with the result you generated.
Nemenor, a knight PC, has joined forces with 
the dragon Gregroth to work against a mutual 
foe. They’re currently traveling together through 
a forest. As evening draws near the knight asks 
the dragon where he thinks they should camp for 
the night.
The Player frames the expected action as a Fate 
Question: “Does Gregroth suggest camping next 
to a pile of boulders?” They don’t really know 
what the dragon will say but this response seems 
plausible, so they give the Question Odds of 
50/50. Mythic returns a Yes.
Later, after they make camp, Nemenor asks 
the dragon who should take first watch during 
the night. The Player asks, “Does Gregroth say 
he will take first watch?” assigning this Odds 
of 50/50. Mythic comes back with a No. The 
Player interprets this to mean the dragon says the 
knight should take first watch since that seems 
like the next most expected thing he would say.
 If specific language is required (maybe you’re 
playing in a group setting and want to give the 
interaction more color, or maybe you’re writing out 
your solo session for a blog post or your personal 
journal), then the Player can use any words that 
make sense with the rolled results. 
The Player words the first exchange between 
knight and dragon like this: Nemenor glances at 
the sky, noting that they have about an hour left 
until dark. “We should start looking for shelter 
before nightfall.” He turns to the dragon. “Do 
you have a preferred way to camp in the woods?” 
Gregroth glances around at their surroundings. 
“Rocks. I like rocks. Big rocks. Let’s find a nice 
pile of boulders to curl up against, get all warm 
and cozy.”
Social Skills
If you’re using Mythic with an RPG that has 
social skills you can incorporate skill rolls into 
your interactions with NPCs. The results of these 
skill rolls become part of the Context, helping 
you formulate expectations, adjust the Odds 
of Fate Questions, and interpret the roll results 
(including any Meaning Table rolls) to interpret 
NPC behavior.
From combat to conversations you can determine NPC actions 
by using a combination of expectations, Fate Questions, and 
Discovering Meaning.
110110
SCENES

