--- PAGE 37 ---
GENERATING 
RANDOM EVENTS
Once a Random Event has been triggered you 
need to figure out what happens. There are two 
components to a Random Event: Event Focus and 
Event Meaning. Both of these components are 
interpreted through the lens of Context. Interpret 
those elements together to get your final result.
CONTEXT 
Context includes everything that’s happened 
in the adventure up to this point. It is the 
backdrop that should be taken into account when 
interpreting any Random Event.
If the Player Character is a spy sneaking 
through an enemy stronghold in search of stolen 
plans for a military satellite, Random Events 
should be interpreted with this setting in mind. 
If an Event indicates that something negative 
happens to the PC, then perhaps they are spotted 
by a guard or drop their gun down a stairwell. 
The Fate Question or tested Scene that 
prompted the Event also counts as Context. If 
your Fate Question was “Does the guard hear me 
approach?”, and you generate a Random Event, 
then the Event itself may have something to do 
with the guard. 
Keeping Context in mind will help you make 
the logical leap toward resolving the Event in a 
satisfying manner.  
EVENT FOCUS 
When a Random Event is triggered you need to 
establish where the action of the Event is focused. 
This is done by rolling 1d100 on the Random 
Event Focus Table. The result will point to an 
aspect of your adventure. For instance, the Event 
might directly affect a Player Character, or it 
might introduce a new Non-Player Character. 
Here’s what all the table results mean:
GENERATING RANDOM EVENTS
3636
RANDOM EVENTS

--- PAGE 38 ---
REMOTE EVENT
A Remote Event means that something has 
happened that your Character wasn’t present 
for; they’re only learning about it now. This can 
happen in many ways. 
Maybe the Player Character encounters 
the dead body of an NPC they met earlier in 
the adventure, and the Remote Event is this 
Character’s death, which the PC did not directly 
witness. Or maybe the PC wanders into a tavern 
and learns by word of mouth that the enemy 
horde has advanced, destroying the next town 
down the road.
Remote Events are a way of introducing new 
twists into an adventure without the PC being 
directly involved with them.
AMBIGUOUS EVENT
Most of the Event Focus Table results give you 
a clear indication of what the Event is about. NPC 
Action means that an NPC does something; PC 
Positive means whatever that happens is good for 
the Player Character. Maybe a Thread is being 
closed, or maybe a new NPC enters the adventure. 
Whatever it is, its impact on the adventure is clear.
An Ambiguous Event, however, is purposefully 
vague. It’s something that happens which is 
neither harmful nor helpful, at least not initially.
The PC in a zombie apocalypse adventure is 
exploring an abandoned building in search 
of useful items or food. Suddenly, they hear 
something from the floor above: a bumping 
and scraping, followed by rhythmic thumps 
that might be footsteps. Is it a zombie? Another 
survivor? Maybe it’s someone who can help them, 
or maybe it’s just the wind blowing through an 
open window. The PC doesn’t know.
An Ambiguous Event can be interpreted in 
several different ways. Perhaps the Event is vague, 
and you won’t know whether it’s good or bad 
until you check it out, like in the example above. 
This makes an Ambiguous Event an opportunity 
to explore.
Or perhaps the Ambiguous Event is a new 
element in your adventure that doesn’t make 
sense now but might make sense later. If your 
PC comes across a photo of several people while 
exploring an empty house, is this photo a clue 
related to what you’re searching for, or is it just a 
random photo with no relevance to your mission? 
Only time will tell.
RANDOM EVENT FOCUS TABLE
1d100 RESULT
1-5 Remote Event
6-10 Ambiguous Event
11-20 New NPC
21-40 NPC Action
41-45 NPC Negative
46-50 NPC Positive
51-55 Move Toward A Thread
56-65 Move Away From A Thread
66-70 Close A Thread
71-80 PC Negative
81-85 PC Positive
86-100 Current Context
3636 3737
RANDOM EVENTS

--- PAGE 39 ---
In the examples above, the Ambiguous Events 
don’t say anything about the narrative. A random 
sound, a photo—these are details that may or 
may not expand into something meaningful 
later on in the adventure. They might turn out 
to be significant, or they might turn out to be 
red herrings or bits of ambiance. Interpreting an 
Ambiguous Event doesn’t require you to figure 
out what it means; you just have to leave yourself 
open to the possibilities.
Ambiguous Events can easily turn into 
narrative foreshadowing. Maybe those animal 
sounds your PC heard in the woods are the 
passage of small creatures they’ll soon encounter. 
Maybe that photo you found will come in 
handy later when you run afoul of a ghost in the 
house. Keep those ambiguous details in mind in 
case they fit with future Context and help you 
interpret later events. 
The PC encounters a man in town he recognizes 
from the photo he found in the house. After some 
detective work, the PC discovers that the man 
killed his own cousin, who is now haunting the 
mansion. This turn of events—discovering the 
murderer of the ghost—would not have been 
possible without first having the Ambiguous 
Event with the photo.
NEW NPC
A new Non-Player Character enters the 
adventure. This new Character plays a role in 
the current Scene and will likely be added to the 
Characters List when the Scene is over. 
The PC in a sword-and-sorcery fantasy game 
is exploring a dungeon. In a Scene where she’s 
checking out a room, the Player gets a Random 
Event with a New NPC, which they determine 
to be a giant mutated rat. After a short battle, 
the Player realizes that there are likely more of 
these rats in the dungeon, so they add “Giant 
mutant rats” to the Characters List.
NPC ACTION
An existing Non-Player Character does 
something that impacts the adventure. Roll on 
the Characters List to see which NPC acts for 
this Event.
The PC, a zombie apocalypse survivor, is trying 
to find antibiotics for a sick friend. She’s just 
discovered a pharmacy, and searching through it 
is the basis for this Scene. 
As the PC cautiously enters the building, the 
Player asks a Fate Question that generates a 
Random Event with the Focus of NPC Action. 
They roll on the Characters List and get “Dillard 
Gang”, a violent group the PC encountered in an 
earlier Scene that the Player subsequently added 
The results of the Event Focus Table are specific 
about what aspect of the adventure the Random 
Event is centered around: Player Characters, 
NPCs, something bad, something good, and so 
on. However, just because the table indicates 
what element the Event includes doesn’t mean 
it has to be the only element. There’s plenty of 
overlap between results.
For instance, you might generate a PC Positive. 
Yay! Something good just happened to your 
Character, finally. Maybe the good thing that 
happened is you gained an ally, someone who will 
help you accomplish your goals.
Well, hold on. Wouldn’t that be a Move Toward A 
Thread or New NPC?
Yes, it would be. You could have rolled any of 
those for an Event Focus and come up with the 
same interpretation. Whatever Event Focus you 
roll is not meant to limit you; it’s simply meant 
to be a starting place that helps you interpret 
the final result. If that result includes multiple 
elements from your adventure, then all the better.
EVENT FOCUS OVERLAP
3838
RANDOM EVENTS

--- PAGE 40 ---
to the List. The Player determines that a member 
of the gang is lurking in the store and ambushes 
the PC as she approaches the pharmacy counter.
NPC/PC NEGATIVE OR POSITIVE
Something bad or good happens to a Player 
Character or Non-Player Character, depending on 
which result you got on the Event Focus Table. 
If the Event calls for a PC, determine which 
PC it is. If you’re playing solo with a single Player 
Character then this Event is automatically about 
them; if there is more than one Player Character, 
then choose the one you would most expect this 
Event to apply to.
If the Event calls for a Non-Player Character, 
roll on the Characters List to determine which 
Character it is.
Negative and Positive outcomes of this 
Random Event can run a gamut of possibilities 
depending on the Context of the adventure 
and how you interpret the result. The Positive 
or Negative Event can be something story-
shifting and important, or it can be something 
minor, as long as you think it’s the most expected 
interpretation of your results.
An occult investigator PC is trying to rid a 
manor house of an angry, powerful ghost, but it 
isn’t going well. During a Scene where the PC 
is trying to banish the ghost with magic, Mythic 
generates a Random Event with a Focus of PC 
Negative. The Player is playing the game solo but 
controlling two Player Characters—the primary 
investigator Nigel and his assistant Clara—so 
they have to choose which of them this Event 
pertains to. They decide that Nigel is probably 
the target of the Event since he’s the one casting 
the spell.
The Player interprets this Event to mean that the 
ghost exerts tremendous supernatural force and 
pulls the entire house into a nightmare realm 
where reality is shifting and uncertain.
If a Random Event calls for a New NPC but you 
have no idea who or what it could be asking a 
Fate Question or two can help you figure it out. 
Alternatively, you can use an Element Meaning 
Table.
There are Element Meaning Tables for all kinds 
of things pertaining to NPCs: what they look like, 
how they act, their background, their motivation, 
what they say, and more. You can pick and choose 
which tables seem most pertinent in the moment 
and use them to get to know the new Character 
that was just 
introduced into 
your adventure.
You’ll find 
more in-depth 
discussion of 
the Element 
Meaning Tables 
in the “Scenes” 
chapter on page 
84.
CHARACTER CRAFTING
3838 3939
RANDOM EVENTS


--- PAGE 41 ---
In a later Scene, Nigel and Clara are trying to 
break down the door to the room where the angry 
ghost originally died. They believe that this room 
contains a family painting that’s serving as the 
ghost’s anchor to the house, and that if they can 
destroy it they’ll be returned to the normal world.
Mythic generates another Random Event during 
this Scene, this time with a Focus of NPC 
Positive. Rolling on the Characters List, the 
Player gets Warren, the gardener and caretaker 
of the mansion whom the PCs met in an earlier 
Scene but haven’t seen for some time. Up until 
now the Player assumed that Warren must 
have met an unpleasant end somewhere on the 
property. They interpret this Event to mean that 
Warren comes running up the hall after hearing 
Nigel and Clara’s attempt to break into the 
room. The “positive” for Warren in this case is 
that he’s still alive. Maybe he’ll also be of help in 
getting this door open … 
MOVE TOWARD A THREAD
Threads are the goals and missions that the 
Player Character is pursuing. This Random Event 
brings the PC one step closer to resolving an open 
Thread. Roll on the Threads List to see which 
Thread the Event involves.
The Player Character is a pulp era treasure 
hunter exploring an ancient pyramid. During 
this exploration, the Player runs into a Random 
Event and gets Move Toward A Thread, with 
the Thread being “Find the ancient tomb of 
Ank-Tonen.”  
The Player determines that the PC comes across a 
wall inscribed with a crude map of the pyramid 
complex, at the center of which is a symbol that 
can only be the tomb itself. This is a major clue 
for the PC: it shows her exactly how to get to 
where she wants to go!
Generating Random Events in Mythic is, 
well, random. Any NPC you’ve placed on the 
Characters List can turn up if the Event Focus 
calls for it. But what do you do when the 
Character called upon couldn’t possibly be there 
for that Scene?
When an NPC is invoked for a Random Event, 
it doesn’t necessarily mean that the Character 
themself is present and active, just that the Event 
involves them in some way.
For instance, in the example on the previous 
page, the survivor PC is searching a pharmacy 
for antibiotics when the Player rolls a Random 
Event with a Focus of NPC Action that invokes the 
Dillard Gang. In that case it makes sense that a 
member of the group would be physically present 
in the store to cause problems for the PC.
But what if the Player got the same Event Focus 
result later in the adventure when the PC 
was flying in a small airplane? Here are a few 
interpretations that would make sense:
 » The pilot has been friendly and helpful up to 
this point, even offering to fly the PC to a safe 
place. But now she notices a tattoo on his 
wrist, the same tattoo that the other Dillards 
have. He’s one of them! The NPC Action in 
this case is that he’s lying to the PC about 
who he is and what he’s doing.
 » En route to the PCs destination, the pilot picks 
up radio chatter from a settlement below. 
They’re being attacked by the Dillard Gang!
 » While relaxing on the plane the PC checks 
through her backpack to see what supplies 
she has left. To her dismay, the Dillards must 
have gotten their hands on it during her most 
recent clash with them because all of her 
ammo is gone.
BUT, THEY’RE NOT HERE
4040
RANDOM EVENTS

--- PAGE 42 ---
MOVE AWAY FROM A THREAD
While the previous Random Event helps the 
Player Character get closer to resolving an open 
Thread, this Event does the opposite: it represents a 
new hurdle or setback that hinders the PC’s progress 
toward closing a Thread. Roll on the Threads List 
to see which Thread the Event involves.
The Player Character, a hired mercenary, is 
tracking a criminal through the jungle when 
a Random Event comes up with the Event 
Focus of Move Away from a Thread, in this 
case, “Capture the escaped criminal”. The 
Player interprets this to mean that the trail has 
disappeared and there is no sign of the criminal. 
No tracks in the mud, no broken branches, 
nothing. The PC must double back to find the 
trail again, losing valuable time in their pursuit.
The Event should make resolving the Thread 
more difficult but not necessarily impossible; the 
elimination of a Thread is handled with the next 
result on the table or through normal role-play.
CLOSE A THREAD
This Random Event brings about the closure of 
an open Thread. Roll on the Threads List to see 
which Thread this involves.
Determining how the Thread is closed will 
require interpretation, but whatever the Event is 
it should either resolve the Thread or nullify it 
somehow. 
Nigel and Clara, the occult investigators, have 
succeeded in returning the mansion back to the 
normal world, but they still need to banish the 
ghost, find Warren (who‘s disappeared again), 
and find the spell that summoned the enraged 
ghost in the first place.
While Nigel is rummaging in the cellar, Mythic 
generates a Random Event with the Focus of 
Close a Thread. The Player rolls “Find Warren” 
on the Threads List and interprets this to mean 
that Nigel hears knocking sounds coming from 
a large, locked chest. When he opens it Warren 
pops out, gasping for breath. The ghost locked 
him in the chest to get rid of him for good. With 
that goal resolved, the Player removes “Find 
Warren” from the Threads List.
In another Scene, while consulting with a mage, 
Nigel is informed that tampering with the spell 
that summoned the ghost would only strengthen 
its power. He had hoped it would help them 
banish the ghost but now he knows there’s no 
point in looking for it. The Player removes “Find 
the spell” from the Threads List.
CURRENT CONTEXT
Whatever is happening in the Scene right now 
becomes the Focus for this Event. If the Random 
Event was generated from a Fate Question 
then use the Context of the Fate Question as 
the Focus. If the Random Event was triggered 
as a Scene Interrupt then the Event is directly 
related to whatever is currently going on in your 
adventure. A Random Event with a Focus of 
Current Context takes whatever is going on and 
adds a new layer to it.
The Player’s gunslinger PC bursts into a barn, 
expecting to find the bandit he’s been pursuing. 
The Player asks the Fate Question, “Is he in 
here?” Mythic comes back with a No and a 
The Random Event Focus Table has three entries 
pertaining to Threads, including Close A Thread, but 
no New Thread. Characters have a New NPC entry, 
so why don’t Threads have one as well?
There is no New Thread result because the Threads 
you follow are decided by you, not the adventure. 
Mythic will present you with opportunities and 
ideas for goals to pursue, but it is your choice 
whether to make any of them a priority.
WHY THERE IS NO “NEW THREAD”
4040 4141
RANDOM EVENTS

--- PAGE 43 ---
Random Event. The Event Focus Table comes 
back with Current Context.
The Player thought this might be a big moment 
in the adventure—capturing the bandit—but 
they were wrong. This unexpected letdown is the 
Context right now and this Random Event will 
have something to do with that. Depending on 
the Event Meaning generated, maybe the PC 
finds a taunting message scrawled on the wall or 
discovers a bedroll in the corner indicating the 
bandit had been here but moved on.
Choosing The Event Focus
When a Random Event is generated you don’t 
always have to roll on the Event Focus Table. If you 
have a good idea of what the Event Focus should be 
you can choose that result instead of rolling. 
The PC, a space adventurer, is in a tight, 
dramatic spot: caught in a phaser battle in the 
engine room while the warp drive is spiraling toward 
a meltdown. The Player asks a Fate Question 
that generates a Random Event, but with so much 
already going on having an Event introduce a brand 
4242
RANDOM EVENTS


--- PAGE 44 ---
new and potentially unconnected element into 
the Scene would be more cumbersome than 
helpful. The Player decides to skip rolling for 
the Event Focus and instead chooses Current 
Context to ensure that this Random Event 
will have something to do with the phaser 
battle or the engine crisis.
WHEN TO CHOOSE 
THE FOCUS
There are circumstances in an adventure 
where choosing the Event Focus may make 
more sense than rolling for it. For instance, 
in the example above the Player was 
concerned a new wrinkle in the adventure 
would disrupt the current Scene so they 
chose Current Context to have a Random 
Event that clicked with what was going on.
The Choosing The Event Focus Table 
gives some situations where you might want 
to choose a specific Event Focus.
How often you choose instead of roll 
is your choice as well. If you want to have 
more narrative control over your adventure 
you may choose frequently or always. If 
you want a game with more surprises you 
may choose rarely or never.
If you want a middle ground approach 
that allows some limited choice then give 
yourself one choice every five Scenes. This 
means you can choose any result on the 
Event Focus Table for one Random Event 
within any span of five Scenes. Once spent 
you have to wait until the next span of five 
Scenes begins before you get a choice again.
The Player above with the space adventurer 
was in Scene 4 of their adventure. They 
hadn’t chosen an Event Focus yet so the 
option was available. After choosing the 
Focus for that Event the Player won’t have 
the option to choose again until Scene 6 
through 10, then again at 11 through 15, 
16 through 20, and so on.
CHOOSING THE EVENT FOCUS
EVENT FOCUS REASON
REMOTE 
EVENT
Your PC is expecting news 
from afar and now seems like 
a good time for it to arrive.
AMBIGUOUS 
EVENT
The adventure has slowed and you 
are ready for a mystery to pursue.
NEW NPC
There is a logical reason for 
a new NPC to appear in your 
adventure right now.
NPC ACTION
Your PC is waiting on the 
action of NPCs to move the 
adventure forward.
NPC NEGATIVE 
or  
NPC POSITIVE
You want to shift the focus of 
your adventure onto an NPC 
right now, maybe to develop new 
storylines in your adventure.
MOVE 
TOWARD A 
THREAD
Your adventure has stalled 
and needs a push forward. 
This is especially useful for 
an Interrupt Scene.
MOVE AWAY 
FROM A 
THREAD or  
PC NEGATIVE
You want a new challenge 
for your PC to face.
PC POSITIVE Your PC is having a hard time 
and could use a break.
CLOSE A 
THREAD
The adventure has gotten 
complicated and you want to 
thin out the Threads List.
CURRENT 
CONTEXT
 » The Random Event could help 
explain a Fate Question result.
 » A Random Event could be 
disruptive to the current action.
4242 4343
RANDOM EVENTS


--- PAGE 45 ---
Empty List
If you don’t have anything on your Threads or 
Characters List—perhaps the adventure has only 
just begun—then some results from the Event 
Focus Table won’t be usable for you. When the 
Event Focus Table calls for an element from an 
empty List ignore the roll and treat the Current 
Context as the Event Focus instead.
In an adventure set during a futuristic world 
war, the PC is slowly moving through the snow 
down a bombed-out street, staying behind cover 
as much as possible while she searches for activity 
in the area. The Player asks the Fate Question, 
“Does she see anyone?”
Mythic comes back with Yes and a Random 
Event. The Player rolls on the Event Focus Table 
and gets NPC Negative, but this is the first Scene 
of the adventure and the Characters List is empty. 
Since this Event Focus isn’t possible, Current 
Context becomes the Focus instead.
LISTS AS  
RANDOM TABLES
Lists are updated during the Bookkeeping phase 
at the end of a Scene (discussed in the “Scenes” 
chapter). This is when you decide which Characters 
in the Scene were important enough to add to the 
Characters List and if anything stands out as a goal 
you may want to add to the Threads List. 
The two Lists act as random tables used for 
Random Events. Each List is broken up into 5 
sections of 5 lines each. When you add to a List 
you start at the top and make your way down 
line by line. When you’ve filled one section of 5 
elements and go on to the next that new section is 
now activated and becomes part of the active List.
There are two columns of numbers on the 
left of each List: rolling for the first column 
determines which active section of the List to use, 
and the second column determines which element 
in that active section is chosen.
The first roll is determined by how many 
sections of the List are active. If you have up to 5 
elements on your List then you don’t roll for the 
first column, you are only dealing with the first 
section of the List (lines 1-5). 
Get off the island
Find missing crew
Find mystical stone
Tocky McAdams
Bertha The Angry Avian
Jungle
Dinosaurs
If a Random Event calls for an NPC you don’t have to roll for the section 
of the Characters List with this List, only the first section has any elements 
in it. The player would just roll a 1d10 to determine which element is 
invoked. A roll of 6, for example, would indicate “Jungle”.
Get off the island
Find missing crew
Find mystical stone
Tocky McAdams
Bertha The Angry Avian
Jungle
Dinosaurs
Active volcano
Minga the lizard man
Unknown survivor
A few Scenes later the Characters List is more built up. When a Random 
Event happens now that calls for an NPC the player must roll a d4 to 
determine which section to use since there are now elements in the 
second section on lines 6 and 7. A roll of 3 on the d4 and a roll of 1 on the 
d10 would result in “Minga the lizard man” being selected.
4444
RANDOM EVENTS

--- PAGE 46 ---
ADVENTURE LISTS
THREADS LIST
   1-2 CHOOSE  1
   3-4 CHOOSE  2
   5-6 CHOOSE  3
   7-8 CHOOSE  4
   9-10 CHOOSE  5
  1-2 CHOOSE  6
   3-4 CHOOSE  7
   5-6 CHOOSE  8
   7-8 CHOOSE  9
  9-10 CHOOSE  10
  1-2 CHOOSE  11
   3-4 CHOOSE  12
   5-6 CHOOSE  13
   7-8 CHOOSE  14
   9-10 CHOOSE  15
  1-2 CHOOSE  16
   3-4 CHOOSE  17
   5-6 CHOOSE  18
   7-8 CHOOSE  19
  9-10 CHOOSE  20
   1-2 CHOOSE  21
   3-4 CHOOSE  22
   5-6 CHOOSE  23
   7-8 CHOOSE  24
   9-10 CHOOSE  25
1-2
3-4
-
d4
d6
5-6
d8
7-8
d10
9-10
CHARACTERS LIST
   1-2 CHOOSE  1
   3-4 CHOOSE  2
   5-6 CHOOSE  3
   7-8 CHOOSE  4
   9-10 CHOOSE  5
  1-2 CHOOSE  6
   3-4 CHOOSE  7
   5-6 CHOOSE  8
   7-8 CHOOSE  9
  9-10 CHOOSE  10
  1-2 CHOOSE  11
   3-4 CHOOSE  12
   5-6 CHOOSE  13
   7-8 CHOOSE  14
   9-10 CHOOSE  15
  1-2 CHOOSE  16
   3-4 CHOOSE  17
   5-6 CHOOSE  18
   7-8 CHOOSE  19
  9-10 CHOOSE  20
   1-2 CHOOSE  21
   3-4 CHOOSE  22
   5-6 CHOOSE  23
   7-8 CHOOSE  24
   9-10 CHOOSE  25
1-2
3-4
-
d4
d6
5-6
d8
7-8
d10
9-10
4444 4545
RANDOM EVENTS

--- PAGE 47 ---
If you have 6-10 elements you roll a d4, 11-15 
elements is a d6, 16-20 elements is a d8, and 21-
25 elements is a d10.
When a Random Event requires you to roll on 
a Threads or Characters List use the number of 
active sections to determine which die to use then 
roll to see which section this Event will use.
Once you know the section roll a 1d10 and 
compare it to the second column of numbers 
to determine which line in that section is being 
invoked.
If you roll a line that has a Thread or Character 
written on it then that Thread or Character is being 
called upon by the Random Event. When you roll 
a line that is empty of an element the result is 
considered Choose. You have two options:
 » CHOOSE AN ELEMENT: Select an 
element recorded on the List that makes 
the most sense in the current Context. 
 » CHOOSE TO ROLL AGAIN: If you 
would rather be surprised then roll again 
until you get an active element on the List.
The chances of rolling Choose will vary 
throughout the adventure from zero chance (when 
the active boxes in your List are full) to likely 
(when an active box only has one element in it). 
The more full your List gets the more rare Choose 
will become.
EVENT MEANING
You know the Context in which the Random 
Event is taking place and you know what its 
Focus will be. An interpretation may already be 
forming, but it needs more. It needs a spark of 
life. It needs Meaning.
Mythic uses Meaning Tables to generate a 
pair of words that you use as inspiration to help 
interpret a Random Event. Generating the Event 
Meaning involves rolling 1d100 twice on an Event 
Meaning Table to get two words. You pair these 
words together and use their combined meaning 
to suggest interpretations for your Event.
In our war example the Player knows the Focus 
of the Random Event (Current Context), so they 
roll on an Event Meaning Table and get the 
words “Attach” and “Lies”.
After considering the Context of the adventure 
and the Fate Question that generated the Event, 
the Player makes this interpretation: as the PC 
ducks behind a burnt-out car, she sees someone 
tacking a sign to the wall of a building (Attach). 
It’s a propaganda poster (Lies); this must be a 
soldier from the Ministry of Information.
Meanings To Choose From
Event Meaning Tables come in three varieties: 
Actions, Descriptions, and Elements.
 The Actions and Descriptions Meaning 
Tables each have a set of two d100 tables, while 
the numerous Elements Meaning Tables each 
have a single, specialized d100 table. You can 
find the Actions and Descriptions Meaning 
Tables, as well as the three most general Elements 
Meaning Tables, on the next few pages. For more 
specialized Elements Meaning Tables visit the 
“Scenes” chapter on page 84. 
Before rolling, choose the Meaning Table that 
seems most appropriate for the current Event. You 
really can’t go wrong with any of them—they all 
On the Adventure Lists there’s a number to the 
right of each element slot listing the element 
lines from 1 to 25. That’s there to give you a quick 
reference for the current count of your Thread 
and Character elements.
The numbers are also helpful if you’re using The 
Adventure Crafter with Mythic and want to use 
Mythic’s Adventure Lists. For more information 
about combining The Adventure Crafter and 
Mythic see page 171.
WHAT’S THE NUMBER FOR?
4646
RANDOM EVENTS
