--- PAGE 70 ---
mean that the fire is bigger or smaller than 
expected. There were no important objects in our 
Expected Scene so a tweak there could be adding 
one, like a magical stone provided by an ally to 
protect the PC from the fire.
Fate Question
If you’re not quite sure how to Alter the Scene, 
or you have several ideas with no clear winner, you 
can always ask a Fate Question to help you choose.
In an occult horror adventure set in ancient 
Rome, the Player’s Roman soldier Character is 
investigating reports of cattle going missing in the 
countryside. The PC, along with a handful of 
fellow soldiers, has spent several Scenes marching 
deeper into the hills, encountering signs of rituals 
and black magic.
The current Scene ends when the PC returns to 
camp one night and finds his compatriots missing. 
The Player decides that the Expected Scene is this: 
“I arm myself and go into the woods in search of 
the soldiers.”
A roll against the Chaos Factor turns this into an 
Altered Scene. The Player has a couple of ideas 
for Alterations: finding footprints of the soldiers 
leading into the woods; finding a dead soldier 
(which would make sense with how the adventure 
has been going lately); finding a soldier who’s still 
alive. All three ideas seem equally plausible so the 
Player isn’t sure which one it should be. They’re 
leaning slightly toward finding footprints as the 
alteration so they test this with a Fate Question: 
“Is the Altered Scene finding footprints?”
With a Yes the Player would go with finding 
footprints of the soldiers as the Altered Scene.
 A No might mean it’s not footprints that are 
found. With that option off the table the next 
most likely idea for an alteration is finding a 
dead soldier.
An Exceptional Yes might mean taking Yes one 
step further and finding not just footprints but a 
live soldier.
An Exceptional No might mean taking No one 
step further and finding multiple dead soldiers.
Meaning Tables Inspiration
Just as the Meaning Tables offer inspiration 
for Random Events they can also offer inspiration 
for an Altered Scene. Choose whichever Meaning 
Table seems the most appropriate given the 
Context—Actions, Descriptions, or Elements —
and then roll for a word pair to help you change 
the Expected Scene.
In the fantasy adventure about angry spirits the 
PC discovered in the previous Scene that the forest 
fire was caused by a fire spirit. They successfully 
calmed the spirit, halting the spread of the fire, 
and learned in the process that the spirits are 
This section covers a number of strategies for 
turning an Expected Scene into an Altered Scene. 
The method you choose will depend on how 
you like to play and how easy it is to modify the 
Expected Scene you’re working with.
If you’re fine with assuming some narrative control 
over your adventure, and the Expected Scene 
has an obvious second choice, then The Next 
Expectation or A Tweak is probably the way to go. 
If you want more randomness, aren’t sure how 
to Alter the Scene, or simply feel uncomfortable 
assuming that much control, then a Fate Question, 
Meaning Tables Inspiration, or Scene Adjustment 
Table roll may be more to your liking.
As you role-play using Mythic you’ll likely find 
yourself favoring one of these strategies most of 
the time and using a second one as backup based 
on what best fits your style of play and adds the 
most fun to your game.
FIND YOUR STYLE
6868 6969
SCENES

--- PAGE 71 ---
restless because something has disturbed a sacred 
space beneath the earth.
In the next Scene, the PC makes their way to the 
mouth of a cave that leads deep underground. 
Somewhere down there is the sacred space the 
spirit mentioned.
The Player decides that the next Expected Scene 
is “My Character enters the cave to search for the 
sacred space.” Testing that Expected Scene results 
in an Altered Scene.
Unsure of how to alter the Scene, the Player seeks 
inspiration from the Actions Meaning Tables for 
an additional element to Alter the Scene. They roll 
“Distrust” and “Innocent” which they interpret 
to mean that the ground shakes intermittently 
(their reasoning is that the ground is usually solid 
and therefore “innocent”, so now it should be 
“distrusted”.) The whole cave seems somewhat 
unstable, so cave-ins and other such perils may be 
an issue during the exploration ahead.
Scene Adjustment Table
For a more randomized Tweak, roll a d10 
and consult the Scene Adjustment Table to see 
what element changes in your Expected Scene. 
Options include adding or removing a Character, 
changing the intensity of an activity, and adding 
or removing an object. Interpret the result in the 
Context of your Expected Scene to change it. If 
you roll a result that isn’t possible in the current 
Context (such as Remove A Character when the 
Expected Scene didn’t mention any Characters), 
roll again.
In the ancient Roman horror adventure, the 
Player Character finds one of his comrades in 
the woods. The panicked soldier raves about 
a creature that attacked him and dragged the 
others away.
In the next Scene, the PC and his terrified 
companion comb the forest in search of the others. 
The Scene ends when they discover an ancient, 
crumbling castle nestled in the wilderness.
The Player comes up with a new Expected 
Scene: “We enter the castle, our torches held high 
to help us search.” When tested this becomes an 
Altered Scene. The Player rolls a d10 on the 
Scene Adjustment Table and gets Remove A 
Character, which they interpret like so: “When 
we approach the castle the terrified soldier 
refuses to venture inside, too scared to go any 
further. I must go in alone.”
Let’s go over each of the table’s possible results.
REMOVE A CHARACTER
Choose the most logical Character to remove 
from the Expected Scene.
In the example above, the Player would remove 
the frightened soldier since he was the only other 
Character in the Expected Scene. If there were 
no NPCs in the Expected Scene then the Player 
would roll on the Scene Adjustment Table again.
SCENE ADJUSTMENT TABLE
1d10 RESULT
1 Remove A Character
2 Add A Character
3 Reduce/Remove An Activity
4 Increase An Activity
5 Remove An Object
6 Add An Object
7-10 Make 2 Adjustments
7070
SCENES

--- PAGE 72 ---
ADD A CHARACTER
Choose the most logical NPC on the 
Characters List and add them to the Scene. 
Sticking with our Roman horror adventure, 
a Scene Adjustment Table result of Add A 
Character could mean that the PC and his 
companion encounter another missing soldier as 
they enter the crumbling castle.
REDUCE/REMOVE AN ACTIVITY
Reduce the intensity of an active element in 
your Expected Scene, or remove it completely if 
that makes more sense.
In the earlier example with the restless spirits, 
the forest fire was an active element in the 
Expected Scene. A Scene Adjustment Table result 
of Reduce/Remove An Activity could indicate 
that the fire is of lesser intensity than originally 
expected, perhaps just a wisp of smoke signaling 
the start of a fire.
INCREASE AN ACTIVITY
Increase the intensity of an activity in the 
Expected Scene.
Sticking with the forest fire, a roll of Increase 
An Activity could indicate that the fire is much 
bigger than originally envisioned, and the PC will 
need to be very careful if they’re going to venture 
into it.
REMOVE AN OBJECT
Remove a significant object in your Expected 
Scene, choosing whichever object makes the 
most sense.
For the Roman example, maybe the PC and his 
companion enter the castle only for their torches 
to run out of fuel and gutter out.
7070 7171
SCENES


--- PAGE 73 ---
ADD AN OBJECT
Add a significant object to your Expected 
Scene. If nothing logical comes to mind you can 
roll for inspiration on the Meaning Tables.
Perhaps as the Roman Characters enter the 
castle the PC sees a sword lying on the ground 
that belonged to one of the missing soldiers, 
indicating that they were brought this way.
MAKE 2 ADJUSTMENTS
Make two adjustments to the Expected Scene 
instead of one, rolling on the Scene Adjustment 
Table until you have determined both 
adjustments. If this result is generated again 
simply ignore it and reroll. If you roll two results 
that conflict with each other ignore the second 
roll and just use the first.
INTERRUPT SCENES
While Altered Scenes play off your 
expectations, Interrupt Scenes ignore them 
entirely; anything can happen.
If your Expected Scene becomes an Interrupt 
Scene, then Mythic derails your expectations 
to send the narrative in a new and unforeseen 
direction. You generate an Interrupt Scene the 
same way you’d generate a Random Event: roll 
for the Event Focus and Event Meaning, then 
interpret the results in Context.
The detective PC investigating the death of his 
client’s husband is about to visit a suspect at his 
workplace—the next Expected Scene. The Player 
rolls to test this Expected Scene and gets a 2. 
Since 2 is less than the current Chaos Factor of 4 
an Interrupt Scene will happen instead.
To generate a Random Event for the Interrupt 
Scene, the Player rolls on the Event Focus Table 
and gets NPC Action. Rolling on the Characters 
List invokes Ricky No-Thumb, another suspect 
the detective identified in an earlier Scene. Ricky 
runs an illegal gambling operation that the 
victim often visited. 
The Player rolls on the Actions Meaning Tables 
to see what Ricky is doing and gets “Disrupt” 
and “Path”. The Player comes up with the 
EXPECTED SCENE:  A fantasy warrior PC is 
exploring the Dungeon of Fel-Azar, an ancient 
undead wizard. After checking a few cobwebby 
rooms and battling a giant scorpion, the PC 
makes her way down a corridor by torchlight. The 
Player expects the next Scene to be checking out 
another room to see what’s in it.
ALTERED SCENE: Instead of exploring the next 
room the PC has an encounter in the corridor. 
INTERRUPT SCENE: The Player rolls PC Negative 
on the Event Focus Table and gets “Ambush” 
and “Pain” on the Actions Meaning Tables. They 
interpret this to mean that their Character springs 
a trap as she makes her way down the corridor.
EXPECTED SCENE:  A post-apocalyptic PC sneaks 
through an enemy encampment at night to steal 
gasoline for his vehicle.
ALTERED SCENE: The PC finds a cache of fuel 
right away, but it’s guarded by two soldiers. 
Instead of sneaking through the camp the Scene 
will be about overcoming the guards without 
raising an alarm.
INTERRUPT SCENE: The Event Focus Table gives 
NPC Negative with the NPC result of “Choose”. 
The Player chooses “Enemy warband” since 
that’s who the PC is currently robbing. The 
Event Meaning Tables give “Punish” and “Battle”. 
The Player comes up with this interpretation: 
Before the PC can attempt his planned theft the 
encampment is attacked by a rival road gang, 
resulting in all-out battle the PC will have to 
survive long enough to swipe the fuel he needs.
EXAMPLES OF CHANGED SCENES
7272
SCENES
